# Trace Tool

_Trace Tool_ is a graphical application to display, annotate and analyze traces/waveforms generated by ChipScope.
ChipScope is a Xilinks (now AMD) IP available on their FGPAs. When incorporated into the FPGA netlist it together 
with your chip model can record digital and analog signals present inside your FPGA design. In that it is similar to 
oscilloscope. The difference being is that it allows you to access signals and wires of your design that are not 
routed to the external pins. This is extremely powerful. Similar to the oscilloscope it exposes concept of a trigger, 
conditions that activate the trigger and a set of signal (i.e. traces) that are to be captured. In the lab chipscope 
is commonly activated (i.e. trigger is being armed) through Vivado (Xilinx integrated development environment). 
When that happens and trigger is fired (i.e. activated), it records the signals and transfers them to the host computer 
at which point traces are saved in the csv file. When armed and fired again Vivado will override the same csv file. 
To display traces present in that csv file it is common to use Excel and if one wishes to provide plots for presentation 
or do some analysis, often Visual Basic controls are added to the Excel pages. Loading and displaying these traces 
in Excel is slow and can be hard to do since lab users might not know Visual Basic well or simply not have time to code 
visual controls. This where Trace Tool comes in. It provides lab users with the graphical user interface that addresses
the most common tasks performed in the lab with ChipScope generated csv files and does it without requiring user to 
learn or know any programming language.

* [Installation](INSTALLATION.md)
* [Usage](USAGE.md)